Better TraceQL docs (#2242)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/traceql/_index.md

### Unscoped attribute fields

> Attributes can be unscoped if you are unsure if the requested attribute exists on the span or resource. When possible, use scoped instead of unscoped attributes for performance reasons.

Reviewer: I wanted to add some details on performance reasons. What do you think? 
```suggestion
Attributes can be unscoped if you are unsure if the requested attribute exists on the span or resource. When possible, use scoped instead of unscoped attributes. Scoped attributes provide faster query results. 
```

avg(duration) > 20ms
```

For example, find traces that have more than 3 spans with an attribute `http.status_code` with a value of `200`:

```
{ span.http.status_code = 200 } | count() > 3
```

## Arithmetic

TraceQL supports arbitrary arithmetic in your queries. This can be useful to make queries more human readable:
```
{ span.http.request_content_length > 10 * 1024 * 1024 }
```
to compare the ratios of two span attributes:
```
{ span.bytes_processed < span.jobs_processed * 10 }
```
or anything else that comes to mind.

## Examples

> ### Simple query to find traces of a specific operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Find traces of a specific operation
```

> 

Reviewer: Let's say that you want to find traces of a specific operation to find a resource with the `frontend` service name and using the name `POST /api/order`. In the example below, both the resource and the name must be present for any results to be returned.

> 

Reviewer: Adding an introduction to this query. Not sure this write up is phrased correct. Please feel free to modify. 
```suggestion

Let's say that you want to find traces of a specific operation to find a resource with the `frontend` service name and using the name `POST /api/order`. In the example below, both the resource and the name must be present for any results to be returned.  

```

> Let's say that you want to find traces of a specific operation to find a resource with the `frontend` service name and using the name `POST /api/order`. In the example below, both the resource and the name must be present for any results to be returned.  

Author: ```suggestion
Let's say that you want to find traces of a specific operation, then both the operation name (the span attribute `name`) and the name of the service that holds this operation (the resource attribute `service.name`) should be specified for proper filtering.
In the example below, traces are filtered on the `resource.service.name` value `frontend` and the span `name` value `POST /api/order`:
```

Reviewer: This is much better. Thank you.

{resource.service.name = "frontend" && name = "POST /api/orders"}
```

> When using the same Grafana stack for multiple environment (e.g. `production`and `staging`) or having services that share the same name but are differentiated though their namespace, the query looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the same Grafana stack for multiple environments (e.g., `production` and `staging`) or having services that share the same name but are differentiated though their namespace, the query looks like:
```

```
{
  resource.service.namespace = "ecommerce" &&
  resource.service.name = "frontend" &&  
  resource.deployment.environment = "production" && 
  name = "POST /api/orders"
}
```

### Query to find traces having a particular outcome

> All traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that have an erroneous root span:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example finds all traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that have an erroneous root span:
```

> ### Query to find traces having a particular outcome
> 
> All traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that have an erroneous root span:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Find traces having a particular outcome

This example finds all traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that have an erroneous root span:
```

```
{
  resource.service.name="frontend" && 
  name = "POST /api/orders" && 
  status = error
}
```

> All traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that return with an HTTP 5xx error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example finds all traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that return with an HTTP 5xx error:
```

```
{
  resource.service.name="frontend" && 
  name = "POST /api/orders" && 
  span.http.status_code >= 500
}
```

### Query to find traces that have a particuliar behavior

> Query filtering on multiple spans of the traces.
> All the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access the database. It's a convenient request to identify caching problems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use query filtering on multiple spans of the traces.
This example locates all the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access the database. It's a convenient request to identify caching problems. 
```

> ### Query to find traces that have a particuliar behavior
> 
> Query filtering on multiple spans of the traces.
> All the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access the database. It's a convenient request to identify caching problems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Find traces that have a particuliar behavior

You can use query filtering on multiple spans of the traces.
This example locates all the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access the database. It's a convenient request to identify caching problems.
```

You can use query filtering on multiple spans of the traces.

> This example locates all the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access the database. It's a convenient request to identify caching problems.

Author: ```suggestion
This example locates all the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access a database. It's a convenient request to identify abnormal access ratio to the database caused by caching problems.
```

{span.service.name="frontend" && name = "GET /api/products/{id}"} && {.db.system="postgresql"}
```

> ### Query to find traces going through a mix of "production" and "staging" instances
> 
> Very convenient to identify misconfigurations and leaks across environments. 
> Find traces that go through "production" and "staging" instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Find traces going through `production` and `staging` instances

This example finds traces that go through `production` and `staging` instances. It convenient to identify misconfigurations and leaks across environments. 
```

```

> { resource.deployment.environment = "production" } && { resource.deployment.environment = "production" }

Reviewer: The heading and text indicate that this is for searching through production and staging, but both of values in quotes are production. Should one of these be staging?

```

### Other examples

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This example finds traces that go through `production` and `staging` instances. It convenient to identify misconfigurations and leaks across environments. 

Author: ```suggestion
This example finds traces that go through `production` and `staging` instances. 
It's a convenient request to identify misconfigurations and leaks across production and non-production environments. 
```

@knylander-grafana please review

Reviewer: Much better. Thank you for adding the clarification (and catching the missing "is").

> { resource.deployment.environment = "production" } && { resource.deployment.environment = "production" }

Author: ```suggestion
{ resource.deployment.environment = "production" } && { resource.deployment.environment = "staging" }
```

In the example below, traces are filtered on the `resource.service.name` value `frontend` and the span `name` value `POST /api/order`:

```
{resource.service.name = "frontend" && name = "POST /api/orders"}
```

When using the same Grafana stack for multiple environments (e.g., `production` and `staging`) or having services that share the same name but are differentiated though their namespace, the query looks like:

```
{
  resource.service.namespace = "ecommerce" &&
  resource.service.name = "frontend" &&  
  resource.deployment.environment = "production" && 
  name = "POST /api/orders"
}
```

### Find traces having a particular outcome

This example finds all traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that have an erroneous root span:

```
{
  resource.service.name="frontend" && 
  name = "POST /api/orders" && 
  status = error
}
```

This example finds all traces on the operation `POST /api/orders` that return with an HTTP 5xx error:

```
{
  resource.service.name="frontend" && 
  name = "POST /api/orders" && 
  span.http.status_code >= 500
}
```

### Find traces that have a particuliar behavior

You can use query filtering on multiple spans of the traces.

> This example locates all the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access a database. It's a convenient request to identify abnormal access ratio to the database caused by caching problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example locates all the traces of the `GET /api/products/{id}` operation that access a database. It's a convenient request to identify abnormal access ratios to the database caused by caching problems.
```
